>> Steve Kinney: The architecture of your
code base can also be security, right?
Having SQL statements littered
all over your code base,
makes it really hard to refactor this if
you realize you have a problem, right?
Having, even if you don't have an ORM or
something making something like,
it doesn't matter what it
what you call like cause get,
user from session, ID, right?
Get products all the things,
especially for the,
important parts of your app, right?
Sure, let's go with whatever this is,
then using this now means,
if you made boo boo, and
you didn't escape this or
somebody like a junior engineer team
would maybe just didn't know, right?
Honest mistakes happen all the time,
most security vulnerabilities aren't
people being willfully negligent.
They're either people who didn't know or
people who are, again responding to
an incident in the middle of the night,
that is where these things happen, right?
And they're people are busy,
I had an issue two days ago where it's,
we had to put a banner up for maintenance.
It took four of us cuz we were
all doing other things, and
that includes code reviewers, right?
For the simplest things,
we're all busy and we're all just,
trying to get this thing up real
quick in between other things.
Those are when your security issues,
slide in, so
giving yourselves abstractions that
let you just change one function.
That's used throughout your
entire application, is,
weirdly a security feature
at the end of the day.
Yeah, awesome, so, yeah there are those
things you can do there as well, but
the strategy for this is the same, and I
would say, if possible use an ORM, right?
Do something where you're not
kind of doing it yourself, right?
Because like in this case yes,
pulling out passwords bad, right?
Ideally, they were encrypted, all right?
Ideally, you need to be PCI compliant if
you're storing credit card information.
We just got a whole bunch of things about,
breaking the credit cards up between
multiple segments and
storing them differently, encrypting them.
Otherwise you can't hold onto a credit
card at all, honestly just use stripe or
something.
But the idea is having
it in place because,
if you don't,
these things can happen, right?
And that is an entire,
class of issues that you need to solve but
ideally you can, right?
But again, having the logging around
any of those things that come in so
you can detect somebody
even poking around,
no one's gonna get it right
on the first try, right?
They are going to, look I got back a weird
different response, we won't cover this,
but, one of the more interesting,
ways of researching and attack.
Is, what's called a timing attack,
which is,
we talked before about how signing stuff
and encrypting stuff takes time, right?
So, a way to do research is - you know how
you're not supposed to say whether or
not the username is taken, and they have
the wrong password or whether they exist?
One attack is,
hey if I type in a complete,
ridiculous username,
it's lightning fast, and
if I type in probably a real username,
it takes, 20 more milliseconds.
That one must exist, because they were
trying to de-hash the password to see if
the password was right, right?
It's those little things that will give
this stuff away, so having the logs and
stuff along those lines,
is incredibly important.
Because yeah there's all sorts of
fun ways that you can do this,
there's a bunch of other fun ones for
this fake data, right?
You can watch me get fake data in six
different ways if you really want to,
it's in the readme on this example and
I will put a link in a second.
You can try out some other ones as well,
it's a good time but
no one needs to watch me do it repeatedly.
The one thing that I
that could be even worse,
maybe not worse,
losing people's data is pretty bad,
there're all sorts of other
harmful SQL injection, right?
So this is I joked about before,
you legally have to show this cartoon,
if you are teaching web security.
This is Bobby Tables, which is,
yes she has named her child Robert colon,
drop table students,
semicolon, dash, dash right?
Which, when they ran
it on unsanitized query,
dropped the entire student database,
there's the joke,
I've now explained a joke to you,
yay, that is obviously bad, right?
And this is kind of one of those where you
learn that, this process is important, but
yeah, it exists.
It's, we'll see we'll look at some
case studies like I said later,
I keep teasing you, but, it is a thing.
I could not,
do a drop table in here because,
the SQL library has this
idea of get all run.
There are protections in this
library that stopped me and,
as much as I am here to build
purposely broken apps for you,
writing my own, native binary.
Sequel driver just so
I could drop a table in front of you all,
when I could have showed you
a cartoon was not interesting to me.
So I personally,
couldn't drop the tables in this app,
I will be honest I didn't try that hard,
right?
But the there were some
abstractions around the get and
the all where I wasn't able to do it.
But I will also leave that as an exercise
to the reader if you can manage to drop
one of these tables in here as well.
I couldn't, maybe you can
succeed where I failed, awesome.
So yeah we said before the fix
to this one is the same,
there's also the other thing you can do.
And again, I don't wanna to
over-fix it on this too much cuz,
if you're using express and SQLite,
what I'm about to show you works.
Nobody's using SQLite in
production version, right?
There's a version of this for postgres,
there is a different thing for
like I said, flask in Python, or
whatever next js, what have you.
The other thing you could do, and
I have, is to have this idea called
stored queries, so you could do
something like, you could basically.
This is kind of the abstraction I had
before, something like usersQuery,
and I could say that this is
actually await db.prepare.
And this is what's called a prepared
statement, and we'll say that, yeah,
sure, right?
So now this is, a function,
that then will take that missing argument,
it and, will escape everything,
so on and so forth.
This works, it's just tricky if there
is a lot of other stuff you need to do,
you end up with a lot of these.
And one time, I took on a consulting gig,
and I saw somebody who took prepared
statements in my sequel to its
natural conclusion, and I since,
personally have hated them.
But, they're good and
everyone else likes them I just have,
one bad experience that made
me hate them for too long.
But this will work as well, but this will
give you a statement cuz, if you look at
this, there's not, this statement is
actually stored in the database, right?
Again, it depends on the database, so
it's, it limits your surface area for
these attacks.
Now, again, we've seen flaws in
the processors that intel makes, right?
At the end of the day you are standing
on the shoulder of giants and
those shoulders might have
security holes in them, right?
And you're not always, and
this is why, staying on top
of critical vulnerabilities,
not keeping your dependents up to date,
is a thing, but generally speaking, right?
The more you can kind of, abstract
yourself away to battle-tested tools,
you're likely better
off in a lot of cases.
Unless that battle-tested tool
is exploited and then you are,
at least it's like if AWS goes down,
or DNS goes down,
it's a bad day for you,
and half of the continent.
[LAUGH] So at least there's that.